A long tradition in linguistics views analogy as a means for the speaker to analyze or produce new sentences 1 . To be linguistically relevant , an analogy should hold on the level of form as well as on the level of meaning . In contrast to that , in Greek and Latin antiquity , anomaly designated those cases 2 where an analogy of meaning is not reflected by an analogy of form . ( e.g. , ' I drink . ' : ' I 'd like to drink . ' : : ' I can swim . ' : ' I 'd like to be able to swim . ' 3 ) . Conversely , the existence of analogies of form that are not verified on the level of meaning has been taken by the Generativists to indicate the independence of syntax ( e.g. , Abby is baking vegan pies . : Abby is baking . : : Abby is too tasteful to pour gravy 1 See , inter alia , ( PAUL , 1920 , chap.5 ) , ( de SAUSSURE , 1995 , 3rd part , chap . iv ) , ( BLOOMFIELD , 1933 , p.276 ) , ( MOUNIN , 1968 , p.119-120 ) , ( ITKONEN , 1994 , p.48-50 ) , ( PULLUM , 1999 , p.340-343 ) . 2 In those times , the cases considered were in fact in morphology ( See , .e.g. , VARRO , De lingua latine ) . 3 The meaning ' I 'd like to be able to swim . ' can not be construed as * I 'd like to can swim . on vegan pies . : Abby is too tasteful to pour gravy on . 4 ) . The purpose of this study is to estimate the number of `` true analogies '' present in a large corpus , i.e. , analogies which hold both on the level of form , as well as on the level of meaning . Formally , let us denote ' A ' as some meaning , and L ( ' A ' ) as the set of all possible ways of realising ' A ' in a particular language L. Let us denote A as some realisation of ' A ' , i.e. , A ∈ L ( ' A ' ) . With these notations , we want to count , in a given corpus , all cases where the following holds 5 . A ∈ L ( ' A ' ) ∧ B ∈ L ( ' B ' ) ∧ C ∈ L ( ' C ' ) ∧ D ∈ L ( 'D ' ) ∧ A : B : : C : D ∧ ' A ' : ' B ' : : ' C ' : 'D ' The reason for estimating the number of `` true analogies '' in a large corpus comes from the fact that it has been felt that `` true analogies '' between sentences are rare . There is a general feeling that analogy is well attested between words , i.e. , on the level of morphology , but not so much between sentences 6 . We will show that , at least in the corpus we used , this feeling has to be reconsidered . 4 In the third sentence , gravy is poured on vegan pies , while it is poured on Abby ( ! ) in the fourth sentence . This is not parallel to the first and second sentences where Abby plays the same role . This would imply that there is something about to pour which does not come directly from its form nor from its meaning . 5 Needless to say , we disregard trivial cases of the form A : A : : A : A and A : A : : C : C . 6 It is not our purpose to address this issue , but the claim that some necessary analogies can not be built from linguistic data available to children constitutes in fact the basis of the `` arguments from the poverty of the stimulus . '' See ( PULLUM and SCHOLTZ , 2002 ) and ( LEGATE and YANG , 2002 ) . For this study , we used the Basic Traveler 's Expression Corpus , or BTEC , for short 7 . This is a multilingual corpus of expressions from the travel and tourism domain . It contains 162,318 aligned translations in several languages . Here , we shall use Chinese , English and Japanese . There are 96,234 different sentences in Chinese , 97,769 in English and 103,274 in Japanese 8 . The sentences in BTEC are quite short as the figures in Table 1 show . On the level of form , a possible formalisation of analogy between strings of symbols has been proposed ( LEPAGE , 2001 ) which renders an account of some analogies 9 . A : B : : C : D ⇔    ∀a , |A| a + |D| a = |B| a + |C| a dist ( A , B ) = dist ( C , D ) dist ( A , C ) = dist ( B , D ) Here , a is a character , whatever the writing system , and A , B , C and D are strings of characters . |A| a stands for the number of occurrences of a 's in A. dist ( A , B ) is the edit distance between strings A and B , i.e. , the minimal number of insertions and deletions 10 of characters necessary to transform A into B . Obviously , applied to sentences considered as strings of characters ( not strings of words ) , this formalisation can only render an account of analogies on the level of form . Figure 1 shows examples of analogies meeting the above definition . It takes some ten days to gather all possible analogies of form using the above definition on a Pentium 4 computer at 2.8 Hz with 2 Gb memory for a corpus of around 100,000 sentences . Of course , we 7 http : //www.c-star.org/ . 8 The difference in size between Japanese and the other languages may be explained by the indifferent use of kanji or hiragana : e.g. , or /kudasai/ ( please ) . 9 Some cases of analogies are not considered by this definition , like reduplication : e.g. , I play tennis . : I play tennis . Do you play tennis too ? : : I play guitar . : I play guitar . Do you play guitar too ? , or mirroring : stressed : desserts : : reward : drawer . Also , in reality , this formalisation is only an implication . But we shall use it as if it were an equivalence . 10 Substitutions and transpositions are not considered as basic edit operations . do not inspect all possible quadruples of sentences . Rather , a hierarchical coding of sentences based on counts of characters allows us to infer the absence of any analogy within large sets of sentences . This cuts the computational load . To compute edit distances , a fast bit string similarity computation algorithm ( ALLISON and DIX , 1986 ) is used . We counted the number of analogies of form in each of the monolingual Chinese , English and Japanese parts of the corpus using the previous formula . The examples of Figure 1 are actual examples of analogies retrieved . Table 2 shows the counts for each language . The numbers obtained are quite large . For English , we report around 2.5 million analogies of form involving more than 50,000 sentences . That is to say , half of the sentences of the corpus are already in immediate analogy with other sentences of the same corpus . The average number of analogies of form per sentence in each different language over all unique sentences may be estimated in the following way : 1 , 639 , 068 / 96 , 234 = 17.03 for Chinese , 2 , 384 , 202 / 97 , 769 = 24.39 for English and 1 , 910 , 065 / 103 , 274 = 18.50 for Japanese . Averaging the sentences involved , this becomes : 5 , 059 , 979 / 49 , 675 = 33 , 00 for Chinese , 2 , 384 , 202 / 53 , 250 = 44.77 for English and 1 , 910 , 065 / 53 , 572 = 35.65 for Japanese , which indicates that , on average , there are dozens of different ways to obtain these sentences by analogy with other sentences . These counts are necessarily higher bounds of the numbers of `` true analogies '' , as they rely on form only . For instance , the first analogy in Figure 1 is not a `` true analogy '' . However , it is quite difficult to spot such analogies , so that the overall impression is that analogies of form which are not analogies of meaning are exceptions . So , our next problem will be to try to retain only those analogies which are also analogies of meaning . Computing analogies between structural representations is possible 11 . Unfortunately , the corpus we have at our disposal does not offer any structural representation . And it does not seem that tools are yet available which would deliver semantic ( not syntactic ) representations for all sentences of our corpus in all three languages we deal with . Fortunately , common sense has it that translation preserves meaning 12 , and , by definition , a multilingual corpus , like the one we use , contains corresponding utterances in different languages . Consequently , we shall assume that if two sentences A 1 and A 2 in two different languages are translations of one another ( noted A 1 ↔ A 2 ) , then , they should be the linguistic realisations of the same meaning , and reciprocally 13 . ∃ ' A ' / A 1 ∈ L 1 ( ' A ' ) A 2 ∈ L 2 ( ' A ' ) ⇔ A 1 ↔ A 2 ( i ) Suppose that at least one analogy of form can be found to hold in every possible language of the world for some possible realisations of four given meanings . Then , for sure , the analogy of meaning can be said to hold . A ' ) , ∃B ∈ L ( ' B ' ) , ∃C ∈ L ( ' C ' ) , ∃D ∈ L ( 'D ' ) , A : B : : C : D ⇒ ' A ' : ' B ' : : ' C ' : 'D ' If we suppose that the number of languages is finite , let us denote it n , counting the number of `` true analogies '' in a set of sentences in a given language , say L 1 , is tantamount to counting the cases described by the following formula ( ii ) . A 1 ∈ L 1 ( ' A ' ) ∧ . . . ∧ A n ∈ L n ( ' A ' ) ∧ B 1 ∈ L 1 ( ' B ' ) ∧ . . . ∧ B n ∈ L n ( ' B ' ) ∧ C 1 ∈ L 1 ( ' C ' ) ∧ . . . ∧ C n ∈ L n ( ' C ' ) ∧ D 1 ∈ L 1 ( 'D ' ) ∧ . . . ∧ D n ∈ L n ( 'D ' ) ∧ ∀i ∈ { 1 , . . . , n } , A i : B i : : C i : D i ⇒ ' A ' : ' B ' : : ' C ' : 'D ' Of course , the problem is : how to test again all possible languages ? Obviously , relying on more languages should give a higher accuracy to the method . Here , we have only three languages at our disposal . By relying on languages which are typologically different like Chinese , English and Japanese , it is reasonable to think that we somewhat counterbalance the small number of languages used . To summarize , by using Equivalence ( i ) , and by considering only sentences attested in our corpus , Formula ( ii ) can be restated as follows , when restricted to three languages . A 1 : B 1 : : C 1 : D 1 A 2 : B 2 : : C 2 : D 2 A 3 : B 3 : : C 3 : D 3 ⇒ ' A ' : ' B ' : : ' C ' : 'D ' Practically , thus , the number of `` true analogies '' is just the cardinal of the intersection set of the sets of analogies for each possible language . Out of a total of 2,384,202 English analogies on the level of form , 238,135 are common with Chinese . They involve 25,554 sentences . Consequently , 10 % of the English analogies of form may be thought to be analogies of form and meaning , i.e. , `` true analogies '' , when relying only on Chinese . Between English and Japanese the number of analogies in common is 336,287 ( involving 24,674 sentences ) which represents 14 % of the English analogies . An example is given in Figure 2 . Between Chinese and Japanese very similar figures are obtained , as the number of analogies in common between these two languages is 329,429 ( involving 25,127 sentences ) . Taking the intersection of Chinese , English and Japanese leads to a figure of 68,164 `` true analogies '' , involving 13,602 different sentences . Although the number of analogies dropped from 2.5 million analogies of form in English , down to less than 70,000 when intersecting with Chinese and Japanese , one can not say that the obtained figure is small . The average number of `` true analogies '' per sentence over all the corpus is : 162 , 318 / 68 , 184 = 0.42 . In other words , in this corpus , one sentence is involved in about half a `` true analogy '' in average , taking it for granted that the linguistic differences between Chinese , English and Japanese filter real oppositions in meaning out of the oppositions captured by analogies of form . The number of sentences involved in at least one analogy is 13,602 , so that , more than one tenth of the sentences of the corpus are in an immediate analogical relation with other sentences of the corpus . Such a figure is not negligeable . Averaging those sentences involved in at least one analogy gives the figure of 162 , 318 / 13 , 602 = 11.93 `` true analogies '' , which indicates that , on average , there are ten different ways to obtain these sentences by analogy with other sentences . It is questionable whether those analogies that were lost in the successive intersections were really not analogies on the meaning level . In fact , the impression is that our experiment yielded a figure which is excessively low . An inspection by hand convinced us that almost all analogies which were discarded would have been considered by a human evaluator as `` true analogies '' . Figure 1 shows two such examples . The problem is that the corresponding translations in other languages did not make an analogy of form . Other ways of saying could have made valid analogies of form . Consequently , the low number of translation equivalents available in our corpus is responsible of the low number of `` true analogies '' found by this method . 5 A higher estimate : translation by enforcement of `` true analogies '' The corpus we used is rather poor in translation equivalents , or paraphrases : an English sentence gets only 1.20 equivalent sentences on average when translated into Chinese , and only 1.52 into Japanese . If we would like to get a more accurate estimate of the number of `` true analogies '' in English , then our problem becomes that of increasing the number of possible translations of English sen-tences in Chinese and in Japanese , i.e. , to increase the number of paraphrases in Chinese and Japanese . To address this problem , we adopted a view which is the opposite of our previous view . We decided to enforce `` true analogies '' : given an analogy of form in a first language we forced it , when possible , to be reflected by an analogy of form in the second language . This should yield an estimate of the number of analogies in common between two languages which , if not necessarily more accurate , will at least be a higher estimate . A 1 : B 1 : : C 1 : D 1 A 2 : B 2 : : C 2 : D 2 ⇒ D 1 D 2 To do so , the formula mentioned in section 3.1 is used in production , i.e. , D 2 is generated from the three sentences A 2 , B 2 and C 2 when it is possible . Using the method described above , we automatically produced Chinese translations for those English sentences of the corpus which intervene in at least one analogy of form . This delivered an average of 51 different candidate sentences . As a whole , 48,351 sentences among 53,250 could be translated . By doing the same for Japanese , the average number of different sentences is higher : 174 for 47,702 translated sentences 14 . ( For the reader to judge , Figure 3 shows examples of Japanese-to-English translations , rather than English-to-Japanese . ) The obtained translations were added to the corpus so as to increase the number of paraphrases in Chinese and Japanese . Then all counts were redone , and the new figures are listed under the title `` Higher estimate '' in Table 2 . The new figure of 1,507,380 analogies for 49,052 sentences involved should be compared with the previous figures for the lower estimate . It is much higher , but it seems closer to the impression one gets when screening the analogies : analogies of form which are not analogies of meaning are very rare . However , the sentences that were obtained by enforcing analogies and then included in the corpus , are not always valid sentences . Figure 3 shows some such examples . Future works should thus consider the problem of filtering in some ways the translations obtained automatically using , for example , N-gram statistical models . After such a filtering , new counts should be performed again . However , the problem with such a filtering is that it may lose the morphological productivity of analogy . In this paper , we reported experiments of counting the number of `` true analogies , '' i.e. , analogies of form and meaning , between sentences contained in a large multilingual corpus , making the assumption that translation preserves meaning . We computed a lower and a higher estimates . Using an English corpus of almost 100,000 different sentences , we obtained a lower estimate of almost 70,000 `` true analogies '' involving almost 14,000 sentences by intersecting analogies of form between Chinese , English and Japanese . A higher estimate was obtained by enforcing analogies of form , i.e. , generating new sentences to fulfil analogies of form , so as to increase the number of paraphrases . More than a million and a half `` true analogies '' were found . They involve almost 50,000 sentences , i.e. , half of the sentences of the corpus . This meets our impression that almost all analogies of form between the English sentences of our corpus are also analogies of meaning . Although we do not claim that analogy can explain everything about language , this work shows that , even when considering the lower estimate obtained , the number of `` true analogies '' that can be found in a corpus is far from being negligeable . Further research should focus on the way analogies are distributed over sentences , i.e. , on the characterisation of sentences involved in analogies . Finally , as a speculative remark , similar countings as the ones reported above could contribute to the debate about `` the argument from the poverty of the stimulus '' if it were possible to reproduce them on such corpora as the CHILDES corpus 15 ( ITKONEN and HAUKIOJA , 1997 ) show how `` true analogies '' can be computed by relying at the same time on the surface and the structural representation of sentences.12 See ( CARL , 1998 ) for an attempt at classifying machine translation systems relying on this idea.13 Note that , in this formula , L1 and L2 need not be different . If the language is the same , then , A1 and A2 are paraphrases . Here again , we suspect the cause of the difference to be the indifferent use of kanji and hiragana . http : //childes.psy.cmu.edu/ 