This paper treats the resolution of anaphora within the framework of Parse Talk , a dependencyoriented grammar model that incorporates strict lexicalization , head-orientation ( based on valency specifications ) , feature unification , and inheritance among lexicalized grammar specifications ( Br6ker et al. , 1994 ; Hahn et al. , 1994 ) . The results we present rest upon two major assumptions : 1 . As many forms of anaphors ( e.g. , nominal and pronominal anaphors ) occur within sentence boundaries ( so-called intra-sentential or sentence anaphora ) and beyond ( intersentential or text anaphora ) , adequate theories of anaphora should allow the formulation of grammatical regularities for both types using a common set of grammatical primitives . 2 . Anaphora are only one , yet very prominent phenomenon that yields textual cohesion in discourse . Adequate grammars should therefore also be easily extensible to cover nonanaphoric text phenomena ( e.g. , coherence relations , rhetorical predicates ) , which provide for additional levels of text ( macro ) structure , with descriptions stated at the same level of theoretical sophistication as for anaphora . First , we will briefly compare our approach with work done in the context of government-binding ( GB ) grammar and discourse representation the : ory ( DRT ) . As we conceive it , binding theory as developed within the GB framework ( Chomsky , 1981 ; Kuno , 1987 ) offers one of the most sophisticated approaches for treating anaphora at the sentence level of description . This has also been recognized by advocates of competing grammar formalisms , who have elaborated on GB 's binding principles ( cf. , e.g. , Pollard and Sag ( 1992 ) within the context of HPSG , whose treatment is nevertheless restricted to reflexive pronouns ) . Interestingly enough , when faced with some crucial linguistic phenomena , such as topicalization , GB must assume rather complex movement operations in order to cope with the data in a satisfactory manner . Things get even more complicated when languages with relatively free word order , such as German , are taken into account . Finally , considering the case of text anaphora , binding theory has nothing to offer at all . Another strong alternative for considering anaphora constitutes the framework of DRT ( Kamp and Reyle , 1993 ) . Its development can be considered a landmark in the model-theoretic semantic analysis of various forms of quantified sentences , conditionals , and anaphorically linked multi-sentential discourse . At this level of description , DRT is clearly superior to GB . On the other hand , its lack of an equally thorough treatment of complex syntactic constructions makes it inferior to GB . These deficits are no wonder , since DRT is not committed to any particular syntactic theory , and thus can not place strict enough syntactic constraints on the admissible constituent structures . Focusing on the text analysis potential of DRT , its complex machinery might work in a satisfactory way for several well-studied forms of anaphora , but it necessarily fails if various non-anaphoric text phenomena need to be interpreted . This is particularly true of conceptually-rooted and pragmatically driven inferences necessary to build up textual macro structures in terms of coherence relations ( Hobbs , 1982 ) or rhetorical structures ( Mann and Thompson , 1988 ) . This shortcoming is simply due to the fact that DRT is basically a semantic theory , not a comprehensive model for text understanding ; it lacks any systematic connec-tion to comprehensive reasoning systems covering the conceptual knowledge and specific problemsolving models underlying the chosen domain . Summing up , DRT is fairly restricted both with respect to the incorporation of powerful syntactic constraints at the sentence level and its extension to the level of ( non-anaphoric ) text macro structures . GB , on the other hand , is strong with respect to the specification of binding conditions at the sentence level , but offers no opportunity at all to extend its analytic scope beyond that sentential level . We claim , however , that the dependencybased grammar model underlying ParseTalk 1. covers intra-sentential anaphora at the same level of descriptive adequacy as current GB , although it provides less complex representation structures than GB analyses ; these structures are nevertheless expressive enough to capture the relevant distinctions , 2. does not exhibit an increasing level of structural complexity when faced with crucial linguistic phenomena which cause considerable problems for current GB theory , 3. goes beyond GB in that it allows the treatment of anaphora at the text level of description within the same grammar formalism as is used for sentence level anaphora , and , 4. goes beyond the anaphora-centered treatment of text structure characteristic of the DRT approach in that it already accounts for the resolution of text-level ellipsis ( sometimes also referred to as functional anaphora , cf . Hahn and Strube ( 1995 ) ) and the interpretation of text macro structures ( a preliminary study is presented in Hahn ( 1992 ) ) . In this section , we present , quite informally , some constraints on intra-sentential anaphora in terms of dependency grammar ( DG ) . We will reconsider these constraints in Section 3 , where our grammar model is dealt with in more depth . We provide here a definition of d-binding and two constraints which describe the use of reflexive pronouns and anaphors ( personal pronouns and definite noun phrases ) . These constraints cover approximately the same phenomena as the binding theory of GB ( Chomsky ( 1981 ) ; for a computational treatment , cf . Correa ( 1988 ) ) . Dependency structures , by definition , refer to the sentence level of linguistic description only . The relation of dependency holds between a lexical head and one or several modifiers of that head , such that the occurrence of a head allows for the occurrence of one or several modifiers ( in some pre-specified linear ordering ) , but not vice versa . Speaking in terms of dependency structure representations , the head always precedes and , thus , ( transitively ) governs its associated modifiers in the dependency tree . This basic notion of government must be further refined for the description of anaphoric relations in dependency trees ( we do not claim a universal status for the following constraints , but restrict their validity to the description of the German language ) : The reflexive pronoun and the antecedent to which the reflexive pronoun refers are d-bound by the same head . Pronominal and nominal anaphors : ( i ) The antecedent c~ to which an anaphor ~r refers must not be governed by the same head which d-binds 7r , unless ( ii ) applies . ( ii ) The antecedent ~ to which an anaphor r refers may only be governed by the same head H1 which d-binds 7r , if ( ~ is a modifier of a head Hg , H2 is governed by H1 , and a precedes 7r in the linear sequence of text items . Hence , a is not d-bound by the head H1 which d-binds 7r . I D-bindlng : A modifier M is d- We will now illustrate the working of these constraints , starting with the consideration of reflexives . Usually , the antecedent of a reflexive pronoun is the subject of the clause to which the reflexive belongs . In ( 1 ) , the subject Maria is dbound by the same head as the reflexive sich . ( 1 ) Mariai w~scht sichi . Of course , the government relation between antecedent and reflexive need not be an immediate one . For instance , a preposition may occur between reflexive and verb , since the notion of dbinding does not discriminate between NPs and PPs ( of . ( 2 ) ) . If the finite verb is a modal or auxiliary verb , one or more non-finite verbs may occur between the reflexive and the finite verb ( cf . ( 3 ) ) . ( 2 ) Mariai lacht fiber sichi . [ Mary/ laughs about herself~ . ] ( 3 ) Maria/ m5chte sichi verbessern . [ Maryi wants to improve herselfi . ] If an intermediate node occurs between reflexive and antecedent which denotes a noun with a possessive modifier , the reflexive is d-bound by this noun ( cf . ( 4 ) vs. ( 5 ) ) ; hence , that modifier is the antecedent of the reflexive . Though Maria is the subject of ( 4 ) , only Peter can be considered the antecedent of the reflexive , since it is d-bound by the head which d-binds Peter , viz . Geschichte ( cf . Fig . 1 ) . If the intermediate noun has no possessive modifiers , the subject of the entire clause is the antecedent of the reflexive , since the reflexive is d-bound by the finite verb irrespective of the occurrence of the ( object ) NP ( cf . ( 6 ) ) . [ Mary tells Peter's/ story about himself/ . ] ( 5 ) * Maria/ erz£hlt Peters Geschichte fiber sich/ . [ * Mary/ tells Peter 's story about herself/ . ] ( 6 ) Maria/ erz~hlt eine Geschichte fiber sichi . [ Maryi tells a story about hersel/i . ] We will now consider constraints on intrasentential anaphora ( personal pronouns and definite NPs ) . As a general rule , the anaphor must not occupy the position of the reflexive pronoun . Hence , for all the examples given above , any of those sentences becomes ungrammatical if the reflexives are replaced by non-reflexive anaphoric expressions ( of . ( 7 ) vs. ( 2 ) ) . ( 7 ) * Maria/ lacht fiber siei . [ * Mary/ laughs about her/ . ] It is also obvious that whenever the anaphor belongs to a clause which is subordinate to one that contains the antecedent , both may be coreferent : this holds independently of the ordering of antecedent and pronoun ( cf . ( 8 ) vs. ( 11 ) ) . On the other hand , if the anaphor belongs to the matrix clause and the antecedent to the subordinate clause , coreference is excluded ( cf . ( 9 ) ) . But one can easily think of cases where this rule is overridden . Consider , e.g. , a subordinate clause preceding its matrix , as is always true for topicalizations . The claim that a pronoun in the superordinate clause must not be coreferent to an antecedent in a subordinate clause is then obviously false ( cf . ( 10 ) and ( 11 ) ) . In ( 10 ) , the antecedent Peteris not d-bound by the head which d-binds the anaphor er , and Peter precedes er . Therefore , coreference is possible . 2 ( 8 ) Peter/ erwartet , daft eri einen Brief bekommt . [ Peter/ expects that he/ will get a letter . ] ( 9 ) * Er/ erwartet , daft Peter/ e/hen Brief bekommt . [ * He/ expects that Peter/ will get a letter . ] ( 10 ) DaB Peteri e/hen Brief bekommt , erwartet er/ . [ That Peter/ will get a letter , hei expects . ] ( 11 ) DaB er/ e/hen Brief bekommt , erwartet Peter/ . [ That hel will get a letter , Peter/ expects . ] Another special case arises if the antecedent is a modifier of the subject of a sentence . In this case the antecedent of a pronoun may be governed by the head which d-binds the pronoun . In ( 12 ) the pronoun belongs to the subordinate clause , but in ( 13 ) the antecedent of the pronoun belongs to the subordinate clause , and the example seems to be acceptable . In 14 , where the subject Valet is modified by the genitive attribute des Gewinners , the antecedent is governed by the head which also d-binds the pronoun . Both the relative clause and the genitive attribute are modifiers of the subject , which usually occurs at the first position in the German main clause . In this case , the antecedent precedes the anaphor . Hence , coreference between anaphor and antecedent must be granted . 3 ( 12 ) Der Mann , der siei kennt , grfiflt die Fraui . [ The man who knows heri greets the womani . ] ( 13 .. ) Der Mann , der die Frau/ kennt , grfiflt siei . [ The man who knows the woman/ greets heri . ] ( 14 ) Der Vater des Gewinnersi gratuliert ihm/ . [ The winner's/father congratulates himi . ] The incorporation of an ordering constraint is even more justified if one looks at sentences which have a similar structure , but are different with respect to word order ( cf . ( 15 ) vs. ( 16 ) ) . In ( 15 ) , the subordinate clause immediately follows its head word , while in ( 16 ) the subordinate clause is extraposed . In ( 16 ) the anaphor precedes its antecedent , which is governed by the head that dbinds the anaphor . This violates the given constraints , hence coreference is excluded . 2GB explains topicalizatiou with a move of the topicalized CP into the SpecComp phrase of the highest CP , so that the pronoun does not c-commandits antecedent ( in these cases movements into an A-position are assumed for which the binding principles of GB do not apply ) . 3GB explains this phenomenon by linking the modifiers to the subject as adjuncts . In this position , the pronoun does not c-command the antecedent , and the adjunct of the subject is also in an A-position . Structural constraints are necessary conditions , but additional criteria have to be considered when determining the antecedent of an anaphor . Morphosyntactic conditions require that a pronoun must agree with its antecedent in gender , number and person , while a definite NP must agree with its antecedent in number only . Moreover , conceptual criteria have to be met as in the case of nominal anaphors which must subsume their antecedents at the conceptual level . Similarly , for pronominal anaphors the selected antecedent must be permitted in those conceptual roles connecting the pronominal anaphors and its grammatical head . The DG constraints for the use of reflexives and intra-sentential anaphora cover approximately the same phenomena as GB , but the structures used by DG analysis are less complex than those of GB and do not require the formal machinery of empty categories , binding chains and complex movements ( cf . Lappin and McCord ( 1990 , p.205 ) for a similar argument ) . Hence , our proposal provides a more tractable basis for implementation . The ParseTalk model of DG ( Hahn et al. , 1994 ) exploits inheritance as a major abstraction mechanism . The entire lexical system is organized as a hierarchy of lexical classes ( isac denoting the subclass relation among lexical classes ) , with concrete lexical items forming the leave nodes of the corresponding lexicon grammar graph . Valency constraints are attached to each lexical item , on which the local computation of concrete dependency relations between a head and its associated modifier is based . These constraints incorporate categorial knowledge about word classes and morphosyntactic knowledge involving complex feature terms as used in unification grammars . The definition of the grammatical predicates below is based on the following conventions : II denotes the unification operation , 2_ the inconsistent element . Let u be a complex feature term and ! a feature , then the extraction u\l yields the value of l in u . By definition , u\l gives _l_ in all other cases . In addition , we supply access to conceptual knowledge via a KL-ONE-style classification-based knowledge representation lan-guage . The concept hierarchy consists of a set of concept names ~ '' = { COMPUTERSYSTEM , NOTE-BOOK , MOTHERBOARD , ... } and a subclass relation isaF = { ( NOTEBOOK , COMPUTERSYSTEM ) , ( PCI-MOTHERBOARD , MOTHERBOARD ) , ... } C x 9 r. roles C f '' x 9 v is the set of relations with role names `` R = { has-part , has-cpu , ... } and denotes the established relations in the knowledge base , while R characterizes the labels of admitted conceptual relations . The relation permit C 9 v x `` R x 9 r characterizes the range of possible conceptual relations among concepts , e.g. , ( MOTn-ERBOARD , has-cpu , CPU ) E permit . Furthermore , object.attribute denotes the value of the property attribute at object and the symbol self refers to the current lexical item . The ParseTalk specification language , in addition , incorporates topological primitives for relations within dependency trees . The relations left and head denote `` ~ occurs left of y '' and `` x is head of y ' , resp . These primitive relations can be considered declarative equivalents to the procedural specifications used in several tree-walking algorithms for anaphora resolution , e.g. , by Hobbs ( 1978 ) or Ingria and Stallard ( 1989 ) . Note that in the description below tel + and rel * denote the transitive and transitive/reflexive closure of a relation rel , respectively . x d-binds y : < : ~ ( x head + y ) A -~q z : ( ( x head + z ) A ( z head + y ) A ( z isac * finiteVerb V 3u : ( z head u A ( ( z spec u A u isac * DetPossessive ) V ( z saxGen u A u isac * Noun ) V ( z ppAtt u A u isac * Noun ) V ( z genAtt u A u isac * Noun ) ) ) ) ) Box 1 : D-binding The possible antecedents that can be reached via anaphoric relations are described by the predicates isPotentialReflexi~eAntecedentOf ( eft Box 2 ) and isPotentialAnaphoricAntecedentOf ( cf . Box 3 ) . These incorporate the predicate d-binds ( of . Box 1 ) which formally defines the corresponding notion from Section 2 . The evaluation of the max isPotentialReflexiveAntecedentOf y : ¢¢ . Box 3 : isPotentialAnaphoricAntecedentOf thus characterizes the notion of teachability in formal terms . The use of constraints as filters becomes evident through the further restriction of this set by the predicates adapted to particular grammatical relations , thus taking the notion of satisfiability into account . For instance , the predicate PronAnaphorTest from Box 4 contains the grammatical constraint for pronominal anaphors according to which some pronoun and its antecedent must agree in gender , number , and person , and the conceptual constraint described in Section 2 . The predicate NomAnaphorTest from Box 5 captures the conceptual constraint for nominal anaphors such that the concept to which the antecedent refers must be subsumed by the concept to which the anaphoric noun phrase . refers . Additionally it tests whether the definite NP agrees with the antecedent in number . These two predicates cover the knowledge related to the resolution of intra-sentential as well as inter-sentential anaphora . Note the equivalence of grammatical and conceptual conditions within a single constraint . All these predicates form part of the computation process aiming at the resolution of anaphora as described in Section 4 . The ParseTaik environment builds on the actor computation model ( Agha and Hewitt , 1987 ) as background for the procedural interpretation of lexicalized dependency specifications in terms of so-called word actors ( of . Schacht et al . 1994 ; Hahn et al . 1994 ) . Word actors combine objectoriented features with concurrency yielding strict lexical distribution and distributed computation in a methodologically clean way . The model assumes word actors to communicate via asynchronous message passing . An actor can send messages only to other actors it knows about , its socalled acquaintances . The arrival of a message at an actor is called an event ; it triggers the execution of a method that is composed of atomic actions -among them the evaluation of grammatical predicates . As we will show , the specification of a particular message protocol corresponds to the treatment of fairly general linguistic tasks , such as establishing dependencies , properly arranging coordinations , and , of course , resolving anaphors . Consequently , any of these subprotocols constitutes part of the grammar specification proper . We shall illustrate the linguistic aspects of word actor-based parsing by introducing the basic data structures for text-level anaphora as acquaintances of specific word actors , and then turn to the general message-passing protocol that accounts for intra-as well as inter-sentential anaphora . Our exposition builds on the well-known focusing mechanism ( Sidner , 1983 ; Grosz and Sidner , 1986 ) . Accordingly , we distinguish each sentence 's unique focus , a complementary list of alternate potential loci , and a history list composed of discourse elements not in the list of potential loci , but occurring in previous sentences of the current discourse segment . These data structures are realized as acquaintances of sentence delimiters to restrict the search space beyond the sentence to the relevant word actors . The protocol level of analysis encompasses the procedural interpretation of the declarative constraints given in Section 2 . At that level , in the case of reflexive pronouns , the search for the antecedent is triggered by the occurrence of a reflexive pronoun in the text . Upon instantiation of the corresponding word actor , a SearchRefAntecedent message will be issued . The distribution strategy of the message incorporates the syntactic restrictions for the appearance of a reflexive pronoun and its possible antecedent . This can be described in terms of two phases : 1 . In phase 1 the message is forwarded from its initiator to the word actor which d-binds the initiator . Only if the message reaches a finite verb or a noun which has a possessive modifier is a new message with phase 2 sent , and the message in phase I terminates . On any other occasion ( e.g. , the head of the initiator is a preposition or a non-finite verb ) the message is simply passed on to the receiver 's head . 2 . In phase 2 the message is forwarded to the subject of the finite verb or , if a noun d-binds the reflexive , to the possessive modifier of the noun . Only nouns or personal pronouns are capable of responding to SearchRefAntecedenl messages . If the search for an antecedent is successful , a Ref-AntecedentFound message is sent directly to the initiator of the search message which changes its concept identifier accordingly . For pronominal anaphors , the search for the antecedent is triggered by the occurrence of a personal pronoun . Upon instantiation of the corresponding word actor , a SearchPronAnlecedent message will be sent . For nominal anaphors , the search for the antecedent is triggered by the attachment of a definite article as a modifier to its head noun , so that a SearchNomAntecedent message will be issued . Since the structural criteria for the sentence position of both types of anaphors are the same , the distribution mechanisms underlying the corresponding messages can be described by their common superclass , SearehAntecedent . Its distribution strategy incorporates the syntactic restrictions for the appearance of both elements involved , anaphor and antecedent . This can be described in terms of three main phases : 1 . In phase 1 , the message is forwarded from its initiator to the head which d-binds the initiator . Only if the message reaches this head are two further messages with phases la and 2 sent simultaneously , and the message in phase I terminates . On any other occasion ( e.g. , the head of the pronoun is a preposition ) the message is simply passed on to the receiver 's head . fier accordingly . This update of the concept identifier is the final result of anaphora resolution , a change which accounts for the coreference between concepts denoted by different lexical items at the text level . We now discuss the protocol for establishing anaphoric relations based on intra-and intersentential anaphora considering the following text : ( 17 ) Die Firma Cornpaq , die den LTE-Lite entwikkelt , bestiickt ihn mit einem PCI-Motherboard . Der Rechner hat eine Taktfrequenz yon 50 Mhz . [ The company Compaq , which develops the LTE-Lite , equips it with a PCI-motherboard . The system comes with a clock frequency of 50Mhz . ] In the first sentence of ( 17 ) , the SearchAnteeedent message is caused by the occurrence of the personal ihn ( cf . Fig . 2 which depicts two instances of anaphora resolution ) . In phase 1 , the message reaches the finite verb bestiickt , where two new instances of the message are created . In phase Simultaneously , a SearchPronAntecedent message in phase 3 takes the path to the sentence delimiter of the previous sentence , where it evaluates PronAnaphorTest with respect to its acquaintances Focus and Pot-Foci ( no effect ) . ......... ~ ` ~ ! ~i ĩĩi ĩi i ! i i ĩi i i i i i i i i i ĩi ! i i i i ĩ ! i i i i i i ĩĩi i i i i i ĩi i i i i i ĩĩi i i i i ; ĩ The second sentence of ( 17 ) contains the definite noun phrase der Rechner . The search of an antecedent is triggered by the attachment of the definite article to the noun . In phase 1 the message reaches the finite verb hat , where new instances of the message are created . Phase la yields no positive results and the message terminates . In phase 2 the message takes the path from the finite verb to the sentence delimiter ( no effect ) . Since there are no possible antecedents within the sentence , in phase 3 possible antecedents are checked which are stored as the acquaintances Focus and PotFoci of the sentence delimiter for the previous sentence . Since Rechner subsumes LTE-Life at the conceptual level , NomAnaphorTest succeeds . An Antecedent [ bund message is created , which changes the concept identifier of Rechher appropriately . From the linguistic viewpoint , sentence anaphora , so far , have only been sketchily dealt with by dependency grammarians , e.g. , by Hudson ( 1984 ; 1990 ) . The most detailed description of grammatical regularities and an associated parsing procedure has been supplied by Lappin and McCord ( 1990 ) . It is based on the format of a slot grammar ( SG ) , a slight theory variant of DG . In particular , they treat pronominal coreference and anaphora ( i.e. , reflexives and reciprocals ) . Our approach methodologically differs in three major aspects from that study : First , unlike the SG proposal , which is based on a second-pass algorithm operating on fully parsed clauses to determine anaphoric relationships , our proposal is basically an incremental single-pass parsing model . Most importa n't , however , is that our model incorporates the text-level of anaphora resolution , a shortcoming of the original SG approach that has recently been removed ( Lappin and Leass , 1994 ) , but still is a source of lots of problems . Third , unlike our approach , even the current SG model for anaphora resolution does not incorporate conceptual knowledge and global discourse structures ( for reasons discussed by Lappin and Laess ) . This decision might nevertheless cause trouble if more conceptually rooted text cohesion and coherence structures have to be accounted for ( e.g. , textual ellipses ) . A particular problem we have not yet solved , the plausible ranking of single antecedents from a candidate set , is dealt with in depth by Lappin and Laess ( 1994 ) and Hajicova et al . ( 1992 ) . Both define salience metrics capable of ordering alternative antecedents according to structural criteria , several of which can directly be attributed to the topological structure and topic/comment annotations of the underlying dependency trees . We have outlined a model of anaphora resolution which is founded on a dependency-based grammar model . This model accounts for sentence-level anaphora , with constraints adapted from GB , as well as text-level anaphora , with concepts close to Grosz-Sidner-style focus models . The associated text parser is based on the actor computation model . Its message passing mechanisms constitute the foundation for expressing specific linguistic protocols , e.g. , that for anaphora resolution . The main advantage of our approach lies in the unified framework for sentence-and text-level anaphora , using a coherent grammar format , and the provision for access to grammatical and conceptual knowledge without prioritizing either one of them . It is also a striking fact that , given the same linguistic phenomena , structural dependency configurations are considerably simpler than their GB counterparts , though suitably expressive . The anaphora resolution module ( for reflexives , intra-and inter-sentential anaphora ) has been realized as part of ParseTalk , a dependency parser which forms part of a larger text understanding system for the German language , currently under development at our laboratory . The parser has been implemented in Smalltalk ; the Smalltalk system itself , which runs on a SUN SparcStation network , has been extended by asynchronous message passing facilities and physical distribution mechanisms ( Xu , 1993 ) . The current lexicon contains a hierarchy of approximately 100 word class specifications with nearly 3.000 lexical entries and corresponding concept descriptions from two domains ( information technology and medicine ) available from the LOOM knowledge representation system ( MacGregor and Bates , 1987 ) . The definition of d-binding roughly corresponds to the governing categoryin GB terminology , which relies upon the notion of c-command , while the latter two grammar constraints correspond to the three major binding principles of GB . it takes the path to the sentence delimiter of the current sentence ( no effect ) . In phase la , the message reaches the subject Firma , which is the leftmost modifier of the verb , and determines the noun LTE-Lite as the only possible antecedent of ihn . The success of PronAnaphorTesl leads to the sending of an AntecedentFound message , the result of which is the update of the concept identi- 