Bitexts , also referred to as parallel texts or bilingual corpora , collections of bilingual text pairs aligned at various levels of granularity , have been playing a critical role in the current development of machine translation technology . It is such large data sets that give rise to the plausibility of empirical approaches to machine translation , most of which involve the application of a variety of machine learning techniques to infer various types of translation knowledge from bitext data to facilitate automatic translation and enhance translation quality . Large volumes of training data of this kind are indispensable for constructing statistical translation models ( Brown et al. , 1993 ; Melamed , 2000 ) , acquiring bilingual lexicon ( Gale and Church , 1991 ; Melamed , 1997 ) , and building example-based machine translation ( EBMT ) systems ( Nagao , 1984 ; Carl and Way , 2003 ; Way and Gough , 2003 ) . They also provide a basis for inferring lexical connection between vocabularies in cross-languages information retrieval ( Davis and Dunning , 1995 ) . Existing parallel corpora have illustrated their particular value in empirical NLP research , e.g. , Canadian Hansard Corpus ( Gale and Church , 1991b ) , HK Hansard ( Wu , 1994 ) , INTERSECT ( Salkie , 1995 ) , ENPC ( Ebeling , 1998 ) , the Bible parallel corpus ( Resnik et al. , 1999 ) and many others . The Web is being explored not only as a super corpus for NLP and linguistic research ( Kilgarriff and Grefenstette , 2003 ) but also , more importantly to MT research , as a treasure for mining bitexts of various language pairs ( Resnik , 1999 ; Chen and Nie , 2000 ; Nie and Cai , 2001 ; Nie and Chen , 2002 ; Resnik and Smith , 2003 ; Way and Gough , 2003 ) . The Web has been the playground for many NLPers . More and more Web sites are found to have cloned their Web pages in several languages , aiming at conveying information to audience in different languages . This gives rise to a huge volume of wonderful bilingual or multi-lingual resources freely available from the Web for research . What we need to do is to harvest the right resources for the right applications . In this paper we present our recent work on harvesting English-Chinese parallel texts of the laws of Hong Kong from the Web and construct-ing a subparagraph-aligned bilingual corpus of about 20 million words . The bilingual texts of the laws is introduced in Section 2 , with an emphasis on HK 's legislation text hierarchy and its numbering system that can be utilized for text alignment to subparagraph level . Section 3 presents basic methodology and technical details for harvesting and aligning bilingual Web page pairs , extracting content texts from the pages , and aligning text structures in terms of the text hierarchy via utilizing consistent intrinsic features in the Web pages and content texts . Section 4 presents XML schema for encoding the alignment results and illustrates the display mode for browsing the aligned bilingual corpus . Section 5 concludes the paper , highlighting the value of the corpus in term of its volume , translation quality , specificity and comprehensiveness , and alignment granularity . Our future work to explore the Web for harvesting more quantities of parallel bitexts is also briefly outlined . The laws of Hong Kong ( HK ) before 1987 were exclusively enacted in English . They were translated into Chinese in the run-up to the handover in 1997 . Since then all HK laws have been enacted in both English and Chinese , both versions being equally authentic . This gives rise to a valuable set of bitexts in large quantity and high quality that can be utilized to facilitate empirical MT research . The bilingual texts of the laws of Hong Kong have been made available to the public in recent years by the Justice Department of the HK-SAR through the bilingual laws information system ( BLIS ) . All these texts are freely accessible from http : //www.justice.gov.hk/ . BLIS provides the most comprehensive documentation of HK legislation . It contains all statute laws of Hong Kong currently in operation , including all ordinances and subsidiary legislation of HK ( and some of their past versions dating back to 60 June 1997 ) , the Basic Law and the Sino-British Joint Declaration , the constitution of PRC and national laws that apply in HK , and other relevant instruments . The entire bilingual corpus of BLIS organizes the legal texts in terms of the hierarchy of the Loose-Leaf Edition of the Laws of Hong Kong . At the top level , the ordinances are arranged by chapters , each of which is identified by an assigned number and a short title , e.g. , Chapter 5 OFFICIAL LANGUAGES ORDINANCE / . The assigned number for a subsidiary legislation chapter consists of a chapter number and a following uppercase letter , e.g. , CAP 5C HIGH COURT CIVIL PROCEDURE ( USE OF LANGUAGE ) RULES / 5C ( ) . The content of an ordinance , exclusive of its long title , is divided and identified according to a very rigid numbering system which encodes the hierarchy of the texts of the laws . Both the Chinese and English versions of an ordinance follow exactly the same hierarchical structures such as chapters ( ) , parts ( ) , sections ( ) , subsections ( ) , paragraphs ( ) and subparagraphs ( ) . This allows us to align the bitexts along Excerpts from the BLIS corpus are illustrated in Figure 1 and 2 , one illustrating its hierarchy and the other a pair of BLIS bitexts . From the excerpts we can see that not everything has an exact match between a pair of BLIS Web pages . For example , the Chinese side has a gazette number `` 25 of 1998 s. 2 '' and a piece of `` remarks '' at the beginning of content text , whereas its English counterpart has none of them . Basically two phases are involved in constructing the bilingual corpus of the laws of HK . The first phase is to harvest the monolingual texts of HK laws from the BLIS site and align them into pairs . It involves the following steps : ( 1 ) downloading Web pages one by one with the aid of a Web crawler , ( 2 ) extracting the texts from them by filtering out the HTML markup , and ( 3 ) aligning the extracted monolingual texts into bilingual A BLIS Web page does not necessarily correspond to any particular text structure such as a chapter , a part , a section , a subsection , or a paragraph in the BLIS hierarchy . A chapter , especially a short one , may be organized into a few sections in a Web page or in several contiguous pages . Some sections , e.g. , the long ones , are divided into several pages . In general , BLIS does not maintain any reliable match between its Web pages and any particular text hierarchical structures . Fortunately , in most cases a BLIS page always has a counterpart in the other language . There is a `` switch language '' button on each page to link to the counterpart page . Such linkage allows us to download the Web pages in pairs and , consequently , harvest a list of page-to-page aligned bitexts . In addition to the pair link , each BLIS page also carries links for the `` next '' and the `` previous section of enactment '' . These two kinds of linkage turn the pages into two double linked lists , each in a language , as illustrated in Figure 3 , with each page as a node . Nodes in pairs are also double linked between the two lists . However , the pairwise linkage is not reliable in the BLIS site , because there are missing Web pages in one of the two languages in question ( see Table 3 below for more details ) . In order to download all bitexts of legislation from the site , we need to go through one linked list and download each page and its counterpart , if there is one , in the other language . Such scanning gives a list of text pairs , where some pages may have a null counterpart . An alternative strategy is to download each list separately , and then match the pages into pairs sequentially with the aid of numbering information in the header of each page -see 3.2 below . These two strategies verify one another , making sure that all pages are downloaded and put in the right pairs . The downloading is carried out by a Web crawler implemented in Java . In order to accomplish the above strategies , it also has to handle a number of technical issues . • It sleeps for a while ( e.g. , 10 seconds ) when it finishes downloading a certain number of pages ( e.g. , 50 pages ) , because the BLIS site refuses continuous access from one site for a too long time . • When an error occurs , it remembers the current URL . Then it re-starts from where it stops . The data about the file downloading from BLIS site is given in Table 1 . One can conceive that if the time intervals for sleep and downloading could be automatically tuned by the crawler to maximize the downloading efficiency , it would get the job done significantly more quickly . Our option for 10 seconds sleep between every 50 files is based on error records of a number of test runs . Every BLIS Web page is identified by a subtitle that carries numbering information about the page , as illustrated in Figure 1 . Such a subtitle is exactly retained in the page as its HTML title . This feature is utilized to align BLIS pages : all downloaded files are named in terms of the numbering information extracted from their HTML titles , as illustrated in Table 2 . Consequently , all files are naturally aligned in pairs by their names . Any file names not in a pair indicate the missing counterparts in the other language . The statistics of file alignment are given in Table 3 . Basically , this task involves two aspects , namely , filtering HTML markup and extracting content text . A straightforward strategy is that we first clean up HTML tags in each page and then the non-legal content . The tags are in brackets , and non-legal content in a consistent pattern throughout all BLIS pages . However , a more convenient way to do it is to make use of a reliable feature in the BLIS pages : legal content is placed in between two -the only two -horizontal bars in each page . Accordingly , we implement a strategy to first extract every thing in between the two bars and then clean up remaining HTML tags . The output from this procedure includes • a header as a fixed set of items , including chapter number , title , heading , etc. , and • a piece of content text as a list of numbered items each in a line . ( See the header and content text in Figure 2 . ) The text in a BLIS page is displayed as a sequence of hierarchically numbered items , such as subsections , paragraphs and subparagraphs . After page ( or file ) alignment , each page finds its counterpart in the other language . After text extraction , a page gives a content text consisting of a list of numbered items , each in a line . A such Remarks : Adaptation amendments retroactively made -see 26 of 1999 s.3// a ( 1 ) All Ordinances shall be enacted and published in both official languages.// ( 2 ) Nothing in subsection ( 1 ) shall require an Ordinance to be enacted and published in both official languages where that Ordinance amends another Ordinance and-// ( a ) that other Ordinance was enacted in the English language only ; and// ( b ) no authentic text of that Ordinance has been published in the Chinese language under section 4B ( 1 ) .// ( 3 ) Nothing in subsection ( 1 ) shall require an Ordinance to be enacted and published in both official languages where the Chief Executive in Council- ( Amended 26 of 1999 s.3 ) // a Indicating a text line break . Table 4 : Anchors in a sample text item can be divided into a numbering item and the remaining content text in the line , as illustrated in Table 4 . The Chinese counterpart of this text carries similar lines , if no missing line in any page of the pair . Unfortunately , missing lines are found in some BLIS pages , as exemplified in Figure 2 . There is no guarantee that matching text lines one by one in sequence would carry out the expected alignment within a page pair . However , the numbering items at the beginning of each line can be utilized as anchors to facilitate the alignment . The strategy along this line is given as follows . 1 . Anchor identification : numbering items at the beginning of each line are recognized as anchors , with the beginning and the end of the whole content text as two special anchors , resulting in a list of anchors for each page ; 2 . Anchor alignment : match the two lists of anchors sequentially . If a pair of anchors does not match , give up the smaller one ( in terms of the BLIS numbering hierarchy ) and move on to the next possible pair , working in exactly the same procedure as matching identical anchor pairs between two sorted lists of anchors . 3 . Text line alignment : a pair of matched anchors give a pair of matched lines ; an unmatched anchor indicates a missing line in the other language . XML is applied to encode the text alignment outcomes output from the above alignment procedure . It has been a standard for data representation and exchange on the Web , and also accepted by the NLP community as a standard for linguistic data annotation and representation ( Ide et al. , 2000 ; Mengel and Lezius , 2000 ; Kim et al. , 2001 ) . There are a series of yearly NLPXML workshops for it since 2001 . It provides a platform-independent flexible and sophisticated plain text format for data encoding and manipulation . It is particularly suitable for hierarchical linguistic data such as the hierarchicallyaligned bilingual corpus that we have produced . What 's more , converting data to XML format not only significantly reduces the complexity of data exchange among different computer systems but also enhances data transmission reliability and eases Web browsing . There have been many corpora that are annotated with XML , e.g. , HCRC Map Task Corpus ( Anderson et al. , 1991 ) , American National Corpus ( Ide and Macleod , 2001 ) , the La Republica corpus ( Baroni et al. , 2004 ) . Below we present the XML schema for our subparagraph-aligned BLIS bitexts , with sample annotation , and necessary Web browsing . The current version of the XML schema for the bilingual BLIS corpus , as given in Figure 4 , focuses on encoding all text structures in the BLIS hierarchy , including all elements in each BLIS Web page . It is to be extended to cover finergrained structures such as clauses , phrases and words , as we proceed to align the BLIS bitexts at these linguistic levels . For simplicity , we allow para to subsume all types of text line , be they a section , subsection , paragraph or subparagraph . The annotation of a sample bitext with this schema is illustrated in Figure 5 . Annotation of this kind is carried out by a Java program automatically for the entire bitext corpus . A number of display modes are designed for browsing the subparagraph-aligned bitexts , including bilingual modes and monolingual modes . We have presented in the above sections our recent work on harvesting and aligning the bitexts of the laws of Hong Kong , including basic techniques for downloading English-Chinese bilingual legal texts from BLIS official site , sound strategies for aligning the bitexts by utilizing the numbering system in the legal texts , and necessary XML annotation for the alignment results . The value of the outcomes , i.e. , the subparagraphaligned bilingual corpus , can be evaluated in terms of the following aspects . The entire corpus is of 10.4M English words and 18.3M Chinese characters , several times larger than the well-known Penn Treebank Corpus in size . A bilingual corpus of this size and quality covering a specific domain so comprehensively is particularly useful not only in empirical MT research but also in computational studies of bilingual terminology and legislation . Our future work will focus on word alignment for inferring bilingual lexical resources and on automatic recognition of legal terminology . Also , our experience in constructing this bilingual corpus has laid a foundation for us to continue to harvest more bilingual text materials from the Web , e.g. , from Hong Kong government 's Web sites . We find that almost all Hong Kong government web sites , which are in large numbers , maintain their Web pages consistently parallel in English and Chinese . We are not sure if such bitexts in such pages are larger than that in the BLIS site in volume . We do know they cover a large number of distinct domains . This is particularly useful for MT . If we can harvest and align the bitexts from such Web pages efficiently via utilizing their intrinsic characteristics of URL correspondence and text structure , it would not be a dream any more to put an end to the time of having too few existing translation materials for empirical MT studies , at least , for the language pair of Chinese and English . 